# Data Analytics in Power BI Report

In this project, I have been tasked to create a Quartely report for a (theoretical) medium-sized international retailer. The end goal for the report is to be a high-level business summary for C-suite executives, and give insights into business metrics to demonstrate current performance. 

This project utilises the ETL pipeline of data analytics. This stands for: extract, transform, and load. The key skills utilised in this project are:
- Importing, or extracting, data into PowerBI from different sources. Methods used were:
    1. Importing the products table from a .csv file. To do this, simply select text/csv file from the "Get data" option in the home banner. 
    2. Connecting to an SQL database to extract the orders table. To do this, select "SQL server" from the "Get data" option in the home banner. You will be prompted to enter the server name and database name (optional), followed by another prompt to ever the username and password for the desired server/database. The navigation pane will be displayed once you are connected, and from here you can select the table(s) that you want to import. 
    3. Connecting to an Azure Blob Storage container and extracting the stores table.  To do this, select "Azure Blob Storage" from the "Get data" option in the home banner. You will be prompted to enter an account name, followed by an account key. The navigation pane will be displayed once you are connected, from which you can select the container that you want to import. You should select transform data at this stage, and select "Combine" from the first column to populate the table with the data. 
    4. Importing a folder containg three .csv files and combing these to create the customers table. To do this, simply select text/csv file from the "Get data" option in the home banner and point PowerBI to the desired folder. Once the navigation pane pops up, select "Combine and transform" to generate a single table with the information from all the .csv files in your folder. 
- Transforming data in Power Query Editor to rename columns, remove null rows to ensure data integrity, deleting unnecessary columns (and those that contain sensitive data), and creating new columns based upon existing columns. 
- Loading the data into PowerBI for further analysis. 